### Using App Configuration for libraries

* __Category:__ Design-related smells.

* __Note:__ Formerly known as "App configuration for code libs".

* __Problem:__ The ``Application Environment`` <sup>[link][ApplicationEnvironment]</sup> is a mechanism that can be used to parameterize values that will be used in several different places in a system implemented in Elixir. This parameterization mechanism can be very useful and therefore is not considered a code smell by itself. However, when ``Application Environments`` are used as a mechanism for configuring a library's functions, this can make these functions less flexible, making it impossible for a library-dependent application to reuse its functions with different behaviors in different places in the code. Libraries are created to foster code reuse, so this limitation imposed by this parameterization mechanism can be problematic in this scenario.

* __Example:__ The ``DashSplitter`` module represents a library that configures the behavior of its functions through the global ``Application Environment`` mechanism. These configurations are concentrated in the ``config/config.exs`` file, shown below:

  ```elixir
  import Config

  config :app_config,
    parts: 3

  import_config "#{config_env()}.exs"
  ```

  One of the functions implemented by the ``DashSplitter`` library is ``split/1``. This function has the purpose of separating a string received via parameter into a certain number of parts. The character used as a separator in ``split/1`` is always ``"-"`` and the number of parts the string is split into is defined globally by the ``Application Environment``. This value is retrieved by the ``split/1`` function by calling ``Application.fetch_env!/2``, as shown next:

  ```elixir
  defmodule DashSplitter do
    def split(string) when is_binary(string) do
      parts = Application.fetch_env!(:app_config, :parts) # <= retrieve parameterized value
      String.split(string, "-", parts: parts)             # <= parts: 3
    end
  end
  ```

  Due to this type of parameterized value used by the ``DashSplitter`` library, all applications dependent on it can only use the ``split/1`` function with identical behavior in relation to the number of parts generated by string separation. Currently, this value is equal to 3, as we can see in the use examples shown below:

  ```elixir
  iex(1)> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-Vegi")
  ["Lucas", "Francisco", "Vegi"]

  iex(2)> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-da-Matta-Vegi")
  ["Lucas", "Francisco", "da-Matta-Vegi"]
  ```

* __Refactoring:__ To remove this code smell and make the library more adaptable and flexible, this type of configuration must be performed via parameters in function calls. The code shown below performs the refactoring of the ``split/1`` function by adding a new optional parameter of type ``Keyword list``. With this new parameter it is possible to modify the default behavior of the function at the time of its call, allowing multiple different ways of using ``split/2`` within the same application:

  ```elixir
  defmodule DashSplitter do
    def split(string, opts \\ []) when is_binary(string) and is_list(opts) do
      parts = Keyword.get(opts, :parts, 2) # <= default config of parts == 2
      String.split(string, "-", parts: parts)
    end
  end

  #...Use examples...

  iex(1)> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-da-Matta-Vegi", [parts: 5])
  ["Lucas", "Francisco", "da", "Matta", "Vegi"]

  iex(2)> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-da-Matta-Vegi") #<= default config is used!
  ["Lucas", "Francisco-da-Matta-Vegi"]
  ```

  These examples are based on code provided in Elixir's official documentation. Source: [link][AppConfigurationForCodeLibsExample]

* __Treatments:__

  * [Add or remove a parameter](https://github.com/lucasvegi/Elixir-Refactorings?#add-or-remove-a-parameter) |> [Typing parameters and return values](https://github.com/lucasvegi/Elixir-Refactorings?#typing-parameters-and-return-values)
